DESIGN file - How you implemented the project and why you made the design/ethical choices that you did (several paragraphs):
# Design Document
This file should discuss how you implemented your project and why you made the design decisions you did, both technical and ethical. Your design document as a whole should be at least several paragraphs in length. Whereas your README.md is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your DESIGN.md your opportunity to give the staff a tour of your project underneath its hood.


## Technical Decisions
### In this section, share and justify the technical decisions you made.
You don't need to respond to all questions, but you might find some of the following helpful:
* What design challenge(s) did you run into while completing your project? How did you choose to address them and why?
* Was there a feature in your project you could have implemented in multiple ways? Which way did you choose, and why?
* If you used a new technology, what did you learn about this new technology? Did this technology prove to be the right tool?

Among the first decisions we made in the project was choosing how we wanted our layout to look. For this, we decided that a left sidebar would be the best option for a navigation bar as it is the most aesthetic and user-friendly for our website’s goals. In making this sidebar, we used components from different Bootstrap templates that we edited to suit our particular needs for the website. We decided that we would like for the website to have a darker color scheme since darker color schemes are usually preferred for many social media apps. Beyond that, we also added a CheckIn50 website logo on the corner that will be constant no matter the page that you are on. Clicking on this logo brings you back to the homepage.

When designing the format and structure for the daily form, many different pragmatic considerations were taken into account, some later than others. We were deciding if we wanted to break the form up into a form for each activity (i.e., one for meals, one for study, etc..), we had to consider both the logical structure of the code that we would use to implement the form, but also the user accessibility– does the logical/simple structure of having multiple forms justify the time and effort that the user must take to have to submit multiple forms a day? In the end, we decided to implement one form as it was more user-friendly than submitting four forms each day and we figured out how to make the tradeoffs in the code structure not as significant.
Additionally, the actual form design was a result of specific goals– for example, the choice to have drop-down menus for some locations but not others was a deliberate choice in order to grant user flexibility. While there are limited dining halls, people can study, chill, or exercise virtually anywhere and should not be limited by a dropdown menu. Additionally, for our form, we learned the importance of different design elements throughout the process of building the website. For example, we realized that in order to make the most logical SQL database structure for easy data storage, we had to label each input in a consistent way. Also, our first implementation of the website did not include meal or session labels for each row of the SQL tables, but we realized that we wanted to add an ‘update plans’ feature, and in order to update specific plans effectively, we needed to be able to track what meal or session the user wanted to update. In addition, integrating an update plans feature necessitated experimenting with different if/else statements to see what the best way to implement each action (insert vs update) was. Overall, the design of the form, similar to many other pages, was a result of repeated trial and error and debugging.

When designing each of the activity pages, we had a few goals, such as ensuring that the table was rendering effectively and that the information was being inserted/updated effectively on the user side. This proved to be a test of how well our database (DB), tables, and SQL queries were structured. Originally, we planned to have a large table that would include all activities, but we quickly realized that this structure, while certainly possible, would prove confusing and a bit more challenging when trying to pull data from the DB. After experimenting with different database table structures, we decided to go with having a separate table for each activity type and structuring them in parallel ways to allow for easy implementation of SQLite queries. Additionally, when pulling information from the DB to make each row, we had to ensure that our SQL queries were only pulling information from the current day because we didn't want the tables to be displaying information from the days prior. Something that we found to be very difficult (more than expected) was displaying the time in a typical AM/PM 12-hour clock format. This seems relatively straightforward, but apparently, the functions that we had been trying to use from a couple of different sources had been updated in the module and the syntax was no longer correct. Finally, we also implemented certain aspects of the query that made it to where the information being displayed on each page was only the information that corresponded to the user’s friends.

We decided to have a user activity homepage a little later in the design process because we decided that it would make more sense to have the user's information all in one place as opposed to having it included in the general activities tables where the person’s friends' info is as well. Implementing this page was a question of ensuring there was a logical table structure and that only the user’s information from the current day is being displayed. This way, when the person updates their information for that day, they can easily see the update on their homepage.

In order to create the profiles that were used for our webpage, we had to create register and login pages. While the functionality of these pages was largely similar to that of the Finance problem set, we wanted to build upon these pages in two primary ways. First, we wanted to implement additional security requirements, primarily by requiring passwords to be over eight characters and include at least one number, capital letter, and symbol, when users registered for accounts. Given that our users are entering very sensitive information about their location and time, we felt that this should be protected by an especially secure password. Second, instead of routing to a separate page for errors, we implemented a Flask template that would display a context-appropriate error message when a user made an error when registering or logging in, such as an incorrect username or password or the use of an insecure password. While we originally tried implementing this by writing JavaScript into our HTML pages, we realized that a Flask template would be more straightforward and easily understood by anyone looking at our code. Due to this design choice, users would not have to return to the page where they made the error by using their back arrow key or another button. Instead, they would just be redirected automatically, making this a more seamless experience.

Ethical and technical considerations played a huge role in designing the non-reciprocal, permission-based nature of friendships in CheckIn50. Originally, we considered making friendships reciprocal, meaning that when User A enters User B into the add friends page, not only would User B be in User A’s friends list, but User A would also be in User B’s friends list. However, we felt that this would not be ideal because of privacy concerns. User A wanting to see User B’s schedule does not imply that they would want User B to see their schedule. Similarly, users may want more control over whose schedules appear on their dashboard, as they may want to share information with others but not necessarily see that user’s information. Then, we considered a model where users would simply add the names of every user whose information they wanted to see. However, while this addressed the second issue with our first idea, it still allowed users to access any other user’s schedule, even if they did not want to provide that access. This led to our ultimate design, in which we created a friends table where every row represented a friendship, whether pending or accepted. Each row would include a column for friend1username, the user sending the friend request, who wants to see the other user’s schedule, a column for friend2username, the user sharing their schedule, and friend2accept, which would default to pending but change to yes when user 2 accepted the friend request by selecting user 1’s name in the pending requests dropdown menu and clicking the accept button. To reduce clutter in our database, we set the remove friend button (which links to a dropdown menu with all of a user’s friends) and the remove request button (which is linked to the pending request dropdown) to delete the associated row from the database.
Beyond this, we recognized that this page included a lot of potential for bugs. Aside from ensuring that clicking all of the buttons without an associated input would result in the page simply reloading itself, we also accounted for situations where a user may request to be friends with someone who they are friends with or have a pending request for or where a user requests to be friends with themselves or with a user that does not exist. In each of these cases, we again used a Flask template to easily alert the user of their error while also setting the page so that they can simply reenter their information again.



## Ethical Decisions
### What motivated you to complete this project? What features did you want to create and why?

We were motivated to complete this project because both of us had previously talked about how we both had difficulties making plans with our friends in college because each person seems to have such a full schedule and finding overlapping times to spend time with other people was very hard. We both brought up the fact that we wanted it to become more normal to do daily tasks in the company of our friends; studying, working out, or grabbing a quick meal with a friend was a more sustainable way to spend time with friends as opposed to having to schedule and block out time every time you wanted to hang out. This way, people would not feel like it is a burden to spend time with friends. Additionally, we were also aware that some days you may want to spend time alone or away from others, which would be a downside to using a shared calendar since your friends can never be sure when you want to spend time studying/working out together or if you wanted to do so alone. Thus, the design of our website, CheckIn50 solves this problem and avoids potential problems with a shared calendar because you can choose what parts of your plans you would like to share that day. If you feel that you want to study or eat alone one day, then you would simply leave those fields blank on the form, giving you full control over what information is being shared with others. The features we decided to include are detailed in the first section of this document.

An especially important feature that we wanted to create, though, was the friend request function. We recognized that the information that users are entering is sensitive and we want to make sure that users have full control of who is viewing their work.

### Who are the intended users of your project? What do they want, need, or value?
You should consider your project's users to be those who interact _directly_ with your project, as well as those who might interact with it _indirectly_, through others' use of your project.

As detailed above, the intended users of our project are college students (as of right now, Harvard college students, since we have integrated Harvard-specific dining halls), but can also be potentially scaled up to people who have busy schedules and live in similar locations. The goal of the project is to fulfill the users’ need/desire to socialize while also acknowledging their busy schedules. They need a simple and minimally time-consuming web application that would allow them to seamlessly log their daily plans to allow for friends and family to join them.

### How does your project's impact on users change as the project scales up?
You might choose one of the following questions to reflect on:
* How could one of your project's features be misused?
* Are there any types of users who might have difficulty using your project?
* If your project becomes widely adopted, are there social concerns you might anticipate?

Some things we were considering including but decided against were real-time location sharing and the private message function. In both cases, a concern we had was privacy and data hacking. We did not want a person’s real-time location to be vulnerable to being accessed easily, whether it's by friends or people who were able to get access and were not technically ‘friends’. The risks of accidentally not fully protecting the location-sharing feature, to us, outweighed the potential benefits of integrating this feature. Instead, we decided to just have a person include their planned location for their daily activities for that day. Similarly, a chat function would bring up similar concerns about potential hackers being able to hack into a person’s private messages and forcibly communicate with them. Given our limited experience with integrating data protection programs, we realized the risk of making mistakes that would make a person’s information vulnerable was larger than it would otherwise be for a more seasoned web developer/data scientist.

In terms of scaling this website to a larger audience, we can see some problems arising with the assumptions that we make. This website is tailored towards Harvard students as its current design, which informs what drop downs we included. Potential solutions would be to have more open-ended form entries and more options for what types of daily activities they would like to log which would allow for greater user customization. A potential ethical concern we would see from the use of this website would be the facilitation of social groups – this application would almost force people into preexisting social groups (as people are likely to choose certain select friends), which could limit mingling with new people and could reinforce isolation.
